tonight's guest is seymour hersh
prize-winning author and journalist
investigative journalist who's written
for the new york times and written a
number of books from the my lai massacre
to his recent book on the korean
airlines flight double-oh-seven to
tonight's topic the iran-contra affair
mr. Hirsch has made it a career out of
finding the truth behind the headlines
and now without further ado I'd like to
present mr. Seymour Hersh
this is so weird I'm so far back but
that's the way it is apparently but we
get closer to the mic squeals somebody
said as best as I can I think I'll just
try and tell you what's on my mind and
we'll do some questions and I should say
that I'm actually in the middle of a
book not so much on the iran-contra
affair but on the foreign policy of
Reagan and as such I have a lot of ideas
on the press and its role in society
since I which I'm qualified to talk
about and basically I've been following
the issue very close that before I begin
I want to say to those of you who
haven't caught up with the news tonight
that it is true that the White House
announced I guess late this afternoon
that the 82nd airborne and a battalion
of Marines have successfully invaded
Luxembourg and it will be going ashore
at Monaco tomorrow
it's my little funny way of talking a
little bit about sort of beginning by
talking about another issue that's very
interesting obviously Grenada some of
you might remember the famous Grenada
invasion of 1983 which was subsequent
we proved I guess basically that no
nation with a population of fewer than
400,000 is safe from American democracy
I know what else we proved it was an
amazing experience if you think about it
Grenadiers population is 110,000 roughly
the size that of the Rose Bowl that many
people fit into the Rose Bowl once a
year and son of a gun we beat him was a
great victory and maybe the students
that we were told were in peril maybe
they really weren't in peril but that
was a minor fact maybe there really
wasn't 2,000 Cuban armed to the teeth
Cuban warriors
there but that's beside the fact maybe
it took the 82nd airborne something like
four days to go three miles but that was
beside the fact what happened is we
accept it
very jingoistic Lee and I think the
American press are those squealing and
yelling about not being included in the
battle plans basically behaved
I guess as any press would and in any
country at war even horrors tan xub the
Yugoslavia press agency who tossed the
Soviet press agency I I would say that
it's very hard to differentiate the
great American democratic Free Press
from some of the mouthpiece press when
it comes to something like Grenada
in which an incident in which the
present United States said that met
every standard of international law
because we've been asked in by other
countries in the Eastern Caribbean sort
of the rule of laws passed by the
president and explaining the invasion
was that you had asked you to beat up
you and that's okay well this is gonna
be very very tough on Grenada and the
underpinnings of it and the whole story
isn't in what I'm saying I guess is my
way of looking at the Reagan
administration is a little different I
don't focus on iran-contra my own
instinct is that what went wrong in this
government probably went wrong very
early probably as soon as they got into
office that seems to be the pattern
people tend to behave in a consistent
way that his administration's do they
don't change their colors very often and
I think I think if let me just postulate
this to you if Robert McFarlane
and I'm assuming some level of not in
knowledge about the iran-contra affair
McFarlane was the former national
security adviser they've been asked to
go back in by by the President to John
Poindexter then the national security
adviser to go to Tehran last year and in
Tehran he was going to negotiate
trade some weapons he flew in from
Israel traits and weapons for some
hostages that were held by various
factions Shiite factions in Beirut over
which we believe the Iranians had a lot
of control one of the immediate hitches
of course was as is that as McFarlane
discovered the Iranians were basically
rug traders and when he got there they
told them right away that they wanted
more weapons if they were going to
produce some hostages I guess we really
didn't get down to you know if you give
us 30 more weapons we'll give you two
legs and two arms we did get that close
to that but it was a lot of rough
trading a lot of rough talking but I
wonder what would happen and it
precipitated MacArthur McFarland left
the thing fell apart eventually a
newspaper in beirut told us about it and
that's how he first learned I wonder
what would happen if McFarland had made
it suppose be going in there and they'd
asked for more weapons or suppose they
were more satisfied with the weapons we
gave we didn't give him the best we had
the towel mr. steel W missiles we gave
him we're not the most sophisticated
there's other more sophisticated level
emissions of missiles that we did not
give the Iranians and I'm sure they knew
it
I suppose MacFarlane had been successful
it's my belief that he probably would
have the plane called for him to come
back to Washington with the hostages
suppose three or four people were indeed
did pop out of Beirut he would have gone
to Washington that would have been a
ceremony in the White House lon and
maybe the Ayatollah would have been
praised in the sky for his cooperation
maybe he would have been mention but the
bottom line is it would have gone down I
think it would have gone down very
easily if he had made it if he had
gotten it back and even indicated the
Iranians had helped I think all of us
would not have looked since we're such a
country of getting things done I think
all of us would have not have look very
far much further we would have settled
we had immediate success we got our
hostages back and that would have made
most of us happy and the underlying
problem that we were negotiating in
effect in secret against their policy
running a policy in secret totally
diametrically opposed to our public
policy I think what would've been much
of a player well
in all of this there's some interesting
things for me as somebody who's been in
Washington for 20 years but mostly and
somebody has been reading and watching
presidents for a long time I think
basically we're up the creek in our
country in terms of what we and the
press can do for you I think there's
been a lot of misunderstanding about our
role how good we are how bad we are
whether were the messengers whether the
public's tired of the affair or not I
think the issue transcends the press
immediately the problem in this country
and it gets down to some of the basic
things we want from a president we
expect from the president the stand as
we hold them to and I think if you go
back I'll go back just as far as the
Cold War it's my belief that since the
advent of the Cold War and the notion
that American policy was fueled an anti
Soviet ISM anti Russian policy not
necessarily anti-communist in policy
because we can live with the Communists
in China and elsewhere if we have to
anti Soviet style communism I think you
could almost run a skiing a straight
line in the foreign policy of all of our
presidents I don't think the foreign
policy of any president basically from
Truman on down has been significantly
different the core of the policy has
always been basically anti-communism
when push when shoved jimmy carter tried
to be a little different in the end he
had his iran caper to I think ultimately
to basic I'm not saying there's not
enormous differences between a Mondale
and a Reagan on social issues or whoever
is going to be the next candidate for
the Republicans or the Democrats on all
of the issues that I think are very
important to obviously student loans Oh
welfare farm issues but separating out
those the foreign policy is amazingly
uniform and you see a couple of amazing
trends I think one of them is that we've
given our presidents basically to divine
rights and foreign policy one of them is
that the right to send our sons and
daughters pluck them from our house you
send you people into combat without
meeting any of the
to tional prerequisites and actually
there's this legislation now the War
Powers Act of 1973 also has another
burden on the president informing
Congress getting their consent in
advance we've advocated that right to
the president that's almost a divine
right of the presidency he can send us
anywhere explain it later whether it's
in Grenada or if they have to go to Iran
into Iran them all he'll just do it and
ask questions first or into Nicaragua
he'll do it first and then come back for
the sanction the second secondary and
sort of obvious corollary Divine Right
is to write the lie to us about it and I
think if you go back through history
you'll find an American president said
without any blinking at all on foreign
policy have lied to us Jack Kennedy lied
to us about Louis Richard Nixon all the
way you can talk about him forever
Lyndon Johnson about the initial Vietnam
caper the the intrusion our incursion
into the Dominican Republic in 1965
Jimmy Carter had his Iran Desert won the
scandal the the flop in the desert when
he tried to rescue the hostages Oh
Jerry Ford had his mayagez some you
might remember the freight the the group
of American sailors that were seized by
the Cambodian force in 1975 forty-one
Marines were killed trying to free him
after they'd already been freed we knew
they've been freed we still sent the
Marines in some of them to die because
we needed the show of force we just lost
the war in Vietnam Reagan's had as I
said as Grenada his Marines in Lebanon
wide more people aren't angry at Reagan
for killing 241 Marines in Lebanon is a
great mystery to me in all of this there
is some sort of sad truths one of them
is as I said we're all loyal it's a
wonderful country
America is a very unique place it's a
kind of place in which somebody like me
can go around and make a living and be
successful
you know criticizing my government
openly and giving them a lot of grief
and B I'm being taken seriously for it
not being thrown in jail I we all
recognize and appreciate the enormous
freedoms we have however there's some
very I think
terribly disturbing trends in the way we
treat our people and our attitudes
towards our people in public life one
obvious thing is as citizens we do say
that the government please if you need
come and take our children our sons and
daughters now and send them off in to
basically trained them in the art of
committing mass murder in the name of
democracy and send them off to do it
with our blessing the president has the
right to come and take our children and
put them in the war in return what do we
ask from our presidents and our national
security leaders we all know that our
own families there's nothing as
important as a child we knew growing up
that you don't lie to mother or father
on serious issues
everybody has petty white lies and as a
parent you learned that one of the
things you try not to do particularly is
your children get older is lie to them
manipulate it that's of course
absolutely silly and counterproductive
and as you get older and wiser you stop
doing it as a parent just as you stop
doing it as a child we all learn in life
that the only real true happiness comes
with having a partner in life in whom
you have enormous confidence and trust
these are all things that we hold very
dear in our own life our life's cannot
live without them there's nothing unique
or uniquely American or uniquely that
happens around the world that's normal
and just think about it the same
standards we insist in on our own family
our own personal life
we no longer begin to expect or demand
from our national leaders the notion
that we would hold Ronald Reagan to the
same level of credibility we insist our
children my insist my children on
critical issue is old it's just it's not
there it's a laugh riot I mean I think
that's a reality some of you may still
believe in the Tooth Fairy and have some
illusions about some of the things mr.
Reagan says or does and he's not a
typical the president's all presidents
will lie to us and have I'm making that
point Reagan's very much in line with
what we've had for 30 or 40 years since
the Cold War began and our expectations
this fall
have fallen so low that the president
and the National Security Advisor can be
shown as they have been to have
manipulated and lied to us repeatedly in
the iran-contra affair for sure and in
many other Affairs I just wrote a story
for the New York Times magazine a month
ago in which I said like it or don't
like the famous and bombing raid on
Libya that we took part in our f-111
some England remember that raid mrs.
Thatcher Magra Thatcher was all upset
about it was not really aimed at
anything other than the assassination of
Qaddafi that was a main target for nine
of the planes the mission was to kill
him
and/or his family
both of which he was in a tent either in
a tent or a house a few hundred yards
away
the pilots were instructed that they
were to bomb both the house and in which
he has a children and an adopted child
and target them on the grounds you could
target the family it was a CIA study
done saying that you could target the
family on the grounds that embed one
culture the desert culture a man like
Gaddafi has diminished even more whether
you get him or don't get him if he
cannot protect his family
so even if you kill his children and
wife and children and miss him you've
diminished him in the standing of his
countrymen how such reason he gets into
the White House isn't really clear I
think anything would have gone I guess
by 1986 the bombs fell Qaddafi was
missed they hit his tent but they hit
near his tent missed him one of his
children an adopted daughter was killed
two of his children a boy three and a
boy four were critically injured and put
in intensive care for a few weeks all
eight of children were hospitalized
along with his wife I don't know what
honor that does to America to have this
go on I don't know what honor I don't
know what kind of integrity what kind of
process it is to have to do it and of
course cover it in a series of lies as
they have done so I guess what I'm
saying is I think it's we're much
further down the road than some of you
might the most people I think we've been
lied to systematically since the man got
no office about foreign policy I think
we've been lied to about the policy in
south
Africa I think we've been lied to about
the policy in the Middle East I think
we've been lied to especially about the
policy in Central America
I think obviously we've been lied to
about the policy in the iran-contra
affair but I think it's deeper I don't
think it's just something that happened
I don't think there was one critical
misjudgment in 1985-86 over Iran I think
it's systemic and endemic and I also
think the last place you're gonna get
the whole story is gonna be from the
press and I think the fact that you
haven't heard it and the press doesn't
tell it to you doesn't mean much because
there's an awful truth that I've come to
I think it's a truth and I think I've
come to understand it I'll tell you
something if the president United States
and his national security liar I'm not
admitted advisor his national security
adviser and his minions lie to us it's
not a natural unnatural mistake actually
if the president and the people around
them lie to the press they can get away
with anything and I'm gonna give you
some evidence I'm gonna give you my view
of history or than that in a minute to
make my point but hear me out I think we
in the press are absolutely helpless if
we have a president who's willing to
sustain a lie and a national security
apparatus is willing to go along with it
we can't penetrate the odds are too hard
against this you cannot believe the
bombshells that are lying out there
folks there have been whole companies of
American Rangers put into combat that we
don't know about yet whether you hear
about it or not whether you can get
enough proof there's an awful lot of
stuff that's going down in this
administration and others too I think
there's been stuff with the Israeli
intelligence service that will be very
troubling to a lot of Americans if we if
it can get out and how can I demonstrate
to you that in this maze that the press
really is sort of more of a bystander
than a lot of people want to believe our
problem is we've been spoiled with
anybody I can always touch base I used
to talk a lot about the Vietnam wars in
the introduction you heard I did a story
and there was the first reporter to
write about the me Line massacre that
was a massacre that took place in 1968
almost 20 years ago in which a army
company
was parachuted was helicoptered into a
what was believed to be a heavy
vietnamese combat area and they went
into a village looking for a fight and
they found anywhere from 345 to 576
depending on whose count civilians men
women children mostly old men mostly
women and children gather around cooking
their morning breakfast their morning
rice about seven o'clock they rounded up
the people put him in three large groups
and machine gun them executed them over
about four or five hours casual raping
along the way at one point they stopped
and they had it took a lunch break and
they sat there amidst the bodies eating
sea rations all of this was observed by
officers flying above them in various
patterns the the air above the operation
the task force was known as task force
Barker in the northern Vietnam at five
hundred feet the battalion commander at
fifteen hundred feet that was the
regimental commander the the one-star
division commander was at two thousand
and above him was the major general in
charge of everything all were they're
all watched of course one lieutenant got
prosecuted for it Lieutenant William
Calley the real lesson is I start up
with that and I used to talk about
Vietnam but you can't talk about you
know it's funny I don't on me when I was
growing up in the 40s and 50s in Chicago
World War one was always some sort of
distant Mirage it was Flanders Fields
and fields of poppies and the poems of
Sassoon and a few other things
a few novels and it seems clear now that
for most young people who grew up in the
late 70s and 80s Vietnam was your
Flanders field in your fields of poppies
it's a distant war it's hard to relate
to it but what I think you all can
relate to is Watergate if by none other
than the mechanism of the movies
everybody here has seen all the
President's Men right have you on home
box office video anybody not seen all
the press
man Redford Hoffman Woodward Bernstein
you know the story about Bob Woodward
and Carl Bernstein Bob Redford and and
Dustin Hoffman played the starring roles
about how they and here's the storyline
these two intrepid reporters nothing I
say should be in any way meant to
denigrate what they did that what they
did is outstanding and they've been
appropriately and rewarded for it is not
enough we can say about it they did
great stuff however there's the
storyline as these two intrepid
reporters find out about this bad guy
Nixon and write a story and they bring
him down great victory for the press the
movie was the big hit sort of like sort
of like an ancient version of Rambo
you know and enrollment and journalism
schools soared everybody got all excited
about journalism is a powerful place a
place to shape things and let me give
you my definition of Watergate in light
of that movie and the perception you
have in light of the notion that the
press actually did in mr. rate mr. Nixon
and my notion has the same sort of
beginning point as I as I would argue
you could begin with Reagan I begin an
inauguration day on January 20 1969
Nixon gets elected some of this is
ancient history for you so bear with me
you won't remember this but it was a
close election he beat Hubert Humphrey
by a few percentage points that Democrat
Vietnam was the critical issue and Nixon
one of his campaign plaques was programs
was planks rather was Nixon said I have
a secret plan to end the war well it
turns out he did after being elected he
decided he was gonna win it which was a
secret plan he was gonna win it and what
he was going to do first is let the
other guys know the North Vietnamese our
enemy that he was tougher than Lyndon
Johnson and willing to risk more he
ordered the b-52 sleep our Strategic Air
Command to begin bombing Cambodia
Cambodia was a neutral country adjacent
to South Vietnam the North Vietnamese
and Viet communist troops as the
Kong we call him would hit us in the
South retreat across the border and hide
out there safe a sanctuary we didn't go
across the border there'd been a lot of
calls by the military to go across the
border in the Johnson era but Johnson
basically acceded to the advice of his
Joint Chiefs of Staff who said in effect
you know mr. president we're not doing
so well in the one war we're in now in
the South why take it to another country
so he never did Nixon changed the rules
he wanted to be 52s to begin bombing the
sanctuaries but he didn't want anybody
to know about it so you authorize double
bookkeeping basically he told these
pilots that they were to bomb Cambodia
and report the bombs inside their own
chain of command as being in South
Vietnam Congress was gonna vote funds
for bombs that were going to be fault
that we're gonna fall in Cambodia but
Congress was gonna be told the bombs are
falling in South Vietnam so was
everybody else inside the military chain
of command mr. Kissinger the Secretary
of the National Security Adviser his
deputy Al Haig the earths while
candidate he as you know he's coming
here soon I'm sure will be here within
minutes as Mort Sahl said he's thrown
his helmet into the ring that'll be an
interesting candidacy it for sure anyway
hey Kissinger picked targets the secret
bombing began March 16th 1969 mix in a
bit in office less than two months we
begin dropping bombs on Cambodia next 14
months 3630 b-52s go over Cambodia a
hundred and ten thousand tons of bombs
by the way everything I'm telling you
came out in subsequent investigations
it's all empirical data anybody want to
challenge me and I'll tell you where you
can find it the facts in the various
hearings 110,000 tons of bombs fall in
Cambodia in secrecy in May two months
after the secret bombing began a
colleague of mine at the New York Times
bill Beecher writes the story about
increasing pressure on North Vietnam and
accurately says one thing we've done is
had a b-52 plane bombed Cambodia he
doesn't say it's systematic he doesn't
say it's been secretly being secretly
designed by the White House with the
tark
picked by Kissinger and hey and the
president he doesn't say it's been going
on for two months and it's going to
continue forever but the White House
doesn't know what else he knows out of
this story which made no impact at all
in the in the public didn't even make
the news that night just another little
story in The New York Times began a then
a twenty one month program of illegal
and unconstitutional obviously
wiretapping thirteen members of the
government including people like the
closest aide to the Secretary of State
and the closest aide to the Secretary of
Defense were wiretapped Kissinger zone
staff five six people on his own staff a
wiretap four newsmen among the Marvin
Callas just recently was signed a
contract to go to Harvard and head up
some center there and then with CBS for
wiretapped 21 months the taps ran the
February of 71 in secret in May fourteen
months later 1970s some of you remember
this we invaded Cambodia Nixon
authorized ground troops to go into
Cambodia some of you might remember Kent
State the students were shot and killed
the Kent State the four students by the
National Guard the country went up in
smoke it's hard to believe it now but at
that time we were very politically
involved in this country the Vietnam War
was very much on everybody's fingertips
Nixon went on television to talk to us
about it he had an American flag in his
lapel and a portrait of Lincoln behind
him and of course sweat on his brow and
I have a beard every cliche and a big
nose he's actually very Nixon of all
like all the people it's the most
interesting to me he's so bright and
very bright and very I think evil Nixon
tells us that we've never violated the
neutrality of Cambodia at this point
he's put a hundred and ten thousand tons
of bombs fourteen months of bombs on
Cambodia b-52 bombers and he looks at in
the eye and he says it's the first time
we've ever violated the neutrality I
don't know what's worse his lie or the
fact that he knew he could get away with
it
bad summer for Nixon if you remember it
was a terrible summer anti-war
demonstrations he was worried about
being be nominated for the election
for the presidential prep for the
presidency by his own party according
his memoirs he nominates two candidates
for the Supreme Court Hainsworth and
Carswell both get rejected if you think
about it that almost never happens even
ed Meese with all the questions about
his credentials sailed through the
Senate
you don't recheck the president's
candidate last one who'd been rejected
was Louis Strauss in the Eisenhower
administration for Secretary of Commerce
he's in big trouble he goes down to
dirty he orders the CIA to go after a
yen day in Chile
he thinks the yen day's election in
Chile Salvadorian the Gosselin's is
elected as a socialist leader of Chile
he thinks that's dangerous even though
every agency tells him there's no
problem he goes after a yen day he also
orders the CIA to begin operating in
secret against American anti-war
students and black students the CIA's
begins a program that would lead to
files I think more than a hundred
thousand doses collected by 1974 when
there was subsequent investigations in
the spring of 71 Daniel Ellsberg
publishes the Pentagon Papers former
Pentagon aid advisor to the Robert
McNamara the White House goes bongo over
this a secret police unit g-chord Liddy
Howard hunt the White House plumbers if
you remember that group is set up
operating out of the White House just
like Oliver North did and John
Poindexter they begin going after
Ellsberg they break into the office of a
psycho analysis and in Beverly Hills in
September 1971 obviously looking for
evidence that he was linked to the KGB
or what to recruit this to do the
break-in hunt and Liddy
hunt out of the CIA Lydia to the FBI
both working for the White House go back
to old CA hands from the Bay of Pigs
with whom hunted worked hunt was a
longtime operative had been working in
the Bay of Pigs for the CIA five Cuban
Americans are brought out to California
guys by the name of Sturges Gonzales
Parker Martinez and they help plan the
operation it's supposed to be a covert
break-in into the office of the
psychotic Oh analyst his name is Lewis
feely
but of course everything goes wrong they
made it a whack ski but the key didn't
work the building was under guard they
ended up using a crowbar to get into the
window they ended up using a get into
the office and a crowbar to get into the
files
and afterwards they realized they hadn't
gone in covertly so they took a thousand
tablet jar of imprint tablets smashing
it threw it around the room obviously
trying to suggest to the police that a
junkie looking for a temper and fix came
in and had burglarized the office lord
knows why they did it what I'm telling
you was in public record and a grand
jury hear of proceedings in a County
grand jury proceeding in la big deal
some guy gets caught a local black guy
gets busted a couple weeks later for the
break-in and ascent to jail where
remained until after Watergate in the
group disbands in April Nixon and as the
people decide they want to get some
intelligence on the White House I mean
on the Democratic National Committee
Larry O'Brien the former Johnson aide
runs the National Committee they have
offices in the Watergate office building
they asked hunt and Liddy to go and do a
bug do a wiretap hunt Liddy turned to
the five Cuban Americans again who trot
up this time not to LA but to Washington
they buy equipment they penetrate the
offices in the Watergate at night they
put bugs in to the phones there in the
offices and they leave go back home to
things wrong with the bug one it doesn't
work for more than a few weeks and
secondly it's in the wrong office
they're not getting Larry O'Brien but
they're getting a deputy in May 72
Jagger Hoover dies the FBI director
Daniel Ellsberg none other comes to lead
an anti-war demonstration in part to
celebrate his death I presumed next-best
Nixon's interpretation he orders action
taken against Ellsberg this comes from
the Watergate prosecutor proceedings
never made public at the time because
Nixon was pardoned if you remember
before they had a chance to prosecute
this fully the five Cuban Americans hunt
and Liddy again are called on to do it
their track record being so sterling
everything they've done have been so
we're wonderful their calls again and
this time the Sturgess later tells the
federal grand jury that the orders were
not to sort of kill Ellsberg we just
sort of you know break a leg or beat him
up or something and they start a fight
at the rally where Ellsberg is speaking
Sturgess and Gonzalez and Barker
Martinez the Cuban Americans brought up
for the same five don't get to Ellsberg
they fight with other people if you know
Dan Ellsberg never heard him talk he
probably never even noticed it as he
talked to fight going on you know a few
feet belong and eventually a bunch of
people are arrested and released the
next day on White House somebody comes
along with Secret Service passes and
releases him in June they decide to do
something the elections coming up in
four months about the the no good no
working bug and Larry O'Brien's phone
and they asked John Mitchell we think
the president they asked hunt and Liddy
to go back and put new bugs in what the
lady turned again to the Cuban Americans
they meet at the Howard Johnson motel
and they go in and while they're in
before they get a chance to penetrate
the offices they're caught by the police
some guard has noticed that a piece of
tape on the door and they're caught and
if you think about it and the whole
point of this story is that's where the
movie begins if some of you saw it it
begins with the breaking okay bear with
me when did we learn about the secret
b-52 bombing of Cambodia which was the
fourth item of impeachment against
Richard Nixon putting bombs where nobody
in Congress and the government has
authorized you to is basically
equivalent to murder one in a lot of
people's books was the fourth item of
impeachment we learned in may seventy
three when do we learn about the
unconstitutional and illegal wiretaps
which are still being litigated by one
Morton Halperin one of the tapis in
federal court we learned in may 73 when
do we learn about the CIA activities
against Chile we learned in September 74
when do we learn about the CIA domestic
spying spying at home in December 74
when did we learn about the activities
against Ellsberg at all and the plumbers
May June July of 73 after what they're
all after one important date the rest of
the 72 election so I would say to you
that my definition of the press and more
de gate is this if the American press
had been able
penetrate any of the White House ongoing
operations and don't forget by 1971
Richard Nixon in acquiescent to a
break-in and again Ellsberg's
psychiatrists he had put a hundred and
ten thousand tons of bombs on Cambodia
over 14 months without getting caught
I mean God last thing he was afraid of
was us I would say that if the president
somehow managed to find one thing out in
the first term of what I call the
foreign policy watergate's Nixon
Kissinger / / Watergate
we might have had a couple of effects
one we might have kept Nixon from
himself if he'd been caught out let's
say bombing Cambodia might have been
afraid to do the wiretapping and have
these clowns go back in and try and beat
up people and go back into the wire
there's nutty stuff they were doing he
might have hesitated twice McConnell
said maybe he could get caught too maybe
you know this isn't heavy Nixon save
himself for myself but it's possible the
second thing is the Democratic
nomination for sure if any of the thread
could have begun to have been unraveled
in 71 let's say if we Porter could have
written about a hundred and ten thousand
tons of bombs it's almost amazing that
we did not we certainly had to see the
holes they were all over the place
maybe the Democratic nomination would
have been a little tougher more hotly
contested maybe he would have been left
to George McGovern a decent but
certainly a sure loser maybe you would
had a more contested a more viable
Democrat nomination certainly a more
viable candidate he's certainly a more
viable election process Nixon could have
won I'm not saying he Quinta but it
certainly would have been a lot tougher
than it was he swept everything if you
remember McGovern got into that is
1,000% forward Tom Eagleton remember if
you remember some of that sort of what
am I saying
I'm saying far the press far from having
a victory amor de gate in which
everybody assumes that was exactly my
exactly what happened my reading of the
history is simply this that we the press
by failing to meet any of the standards
that you might normally expect us to
have and hold in reporting on the Nixon
White House I think you could almost
argue helped make Watergate
created far from being the heroes of
Watergate we fell down so badly that we
made Nixon I guess we prevented Nixon
from from stopping himself a little bit
like people say Reagan should have been
himself and if if Jim Baker and the
others Meese and Eve had been around
maybe Don Regan would have kept Reagan
from being himself I think the analogy
is very exact I guess the point is what
I'm saying is again is that what this
whole story shows is that if the
president wants the lie and the people
want around and want the lie to us don't
expect us in the press to find out about
it we can't if there's going to be a a
social revolution in the United States
don't expects us don't expect us to lead
it we won't even know about it for six
months is another way of looking at it
so it isn't going to be in our bag we
and the press can't help you maybe
you're not surprised maybe but a lot of
people are we can't do a thing for you
we can't do a single thing for you about
it and where are we gonna do it what's
gonna happen well I don't know in this
case in the case of this government I
think one of the things that's gonna
have to happen ultimately is we're gonna
have to have some political leader with
enough courage to say that maybe our
whole foreign policy should not be
structured and simply unstopping that
this Soviet style communists but maybe
that a foreign policy that says it's
okay to go into Grenada because somebody
was threatened there and our students
you know it's okay to do it because the
Grenadians the Canadians love this for
it they do they were certainly feeling
under the rest the Canadian citizens
thought it was wonderful does that mean
does that justify what we do I would
venture that if we went into Chile and
released the people from Pinochet that
the despot who's been ruling there he
took over and said I'm gonna stay in
power 90 days it's been a long 90 days
is that our function to do we have an
obligation that design I don't think so
and what does the world think about a
country that can decide it can go in the
Grenada for purposes it believes to be
just that our national interest dictates
that we this country of 240 million can
go knock off a country of 110,000 what
what can we tell mr. Gaddafi the next
time he decides to go in the chat but
you can't operate in what you perceive
to be your best interest
but we can do whatever we want in our
best interests the morality is at the
end of our guns and our tanks and our
fighters well I think that's very
short-range and I don't think there's
anything we in the press can do for you
we cheerlead this stuff I guess one
answer is going to be maybe Congress but
you have to give Congress a d-minus too
in the last 20-30 years
everybody new in the Congress that mr.
William Casey of the CIA had two things
going for him basically he's probably 30
IQ points smarter than anybody else in
the government and 30 times as devious
everybody knew he was selling him a bill
of goods but nobody had the guts to
stand them up nobody would take on the
Reagan people because Reagan was too
popular we had some amazing spectacle in
the first term of mr. Reagan we had a
case in which some of you might remember
when the Atlantic magazine published mr.
Stockman's Stockman of the of the office
of management of the budget directors a
sort of candid assessment bill greider
had a long piece in stock when December
1981 right at the time of the new budget
in which Grider
which stock would admitted that Donald
Reagan's budget was a fraud that his
notion of cutting deficits and reducing
taxes than spending more on defense
simply was impossible which since should
have been clear so the Congress was
confronted an early 82 with hearings on
the new budget that said of course we
can increase defense spending cut taxes
and reduced the budget the deficit
Congress was confronted with this budget
this as the White House was telling him
they had Stockman's testimony in the
magazine that it was a total fraud so
how did it what to do the answer was the
call Stockman and say to him is that
right
and Stockman so it says no the
magazine's wrong Congress says Oh fine
and then proceeds to go through hearings
on that budget as if indeed that
magazine was wrong and Stockman is
simply misspoken to the reporter and
they marked up the budget as if nothing
Stockman said I fall stock I fought the
book Congress as much as anybody by the
way it's interesting the Stockman wrote
a book that I recommend to all of you
Stockman's book tells you more about
Waddell Regan than anything yet written
and of course he was treated as a pariah
the press joined in in trash
a stockman for being somebody who
defected and this message of the
Stockwood book was totally ignored the
message being that we had a presidency
that was operating on the 6:30 news and
nothing more
well I'm not shy about my opinions I do
remember this is the live free and die
State I presume some of you are really
concerned about the importance of
stopping communism and we'll have a
conversation and I sort of like to get
into it I'm open for any question on
anything that you want to ask me about
my basic thesis is I guess to conclude
let me say something to you that I'm a
pessimist about the presidency I don't
think we're gonna see any changes
there's nobody in the horizon that's
gonna take treated any differently
whoever's gonna you know we are Jekyll
and Hyde you do understand that when you
know campaigning God knows they come
through here like crazy I worked for
when McCarthy was campaigning for the
presidency he was campaigning against
Lyndon Johnson I was as press secretary
and speech writers in the New Hampshire
campaign of 68 I have a cold I was a
speechwriter and and press secretary and
and on the road with him all the time
spent a lot of time in New Hampshire of
course in which we did all right in the
write-in vote and one of the things
about it is that if gee whiz let me tell
you it's terrific fun even if it's minus
12 in Berlin Berlin right you know you
can go on downstairs in the morning and
some guys gotten up a half an hour
before you and the car is gonna be 72
degrees and you're staying at the
ritz-carlton as much as possible
drinking seven dollar glasses of orange
juice and you want something it's
Learjets
even then and 68 it was all Learjets
private jets and this fancy person we
wish the paul newman used to travel with
us and stuff like that
very exciting wonderful time and so what
we have is a presidency we have the kind
of men who run for president who are the
kind of men who can say gee honey take
care of the kids tie those shoelaces
brush that teeth for the next you know
two two years I'm on the road as its
total healthier it's really rough I'll
see you and he can just walk
I'll leave them all without barely a
backward glance I mean let's face it
when you do when you're on the road
you're on the road you simply can't be a
parent and a husband when you're in a
campaign is they don't work it's
impossible and so the kind of guy has to
be the kind of narcissistic guy who
could view his importance to solving the
world's problems that's the way they
view it as so important that he's gonna
walk away from the family for a couple
years and not an irrational trade-off
for most people if you have a chance to
be president while you do it but it does
say something about certain values we
had a case we're probably the classiest
candidate for the Democrats Dale bumpers
just said no there's too many other
things I value so the kind of guy that
does it has the kind of narcissism and
the kind of notion that he can tell 240
million people what to do and that's the
kind of way he looks at things and his
values are such that the value of
worrying about kids and schools and
grades and stuff like that aren't enough
to keep him there he's got to solve the
world's problems and so we get stunned
when this man once he gets elected of
course one of the things we do in our
society is he's our national leader and
the first lady is the first lady and
their family and they're we're all
family oriented in our society and we're
just stung Gwinnett we discover that our
president hasn't seen his grandchild for
18 months since the grand channels been
born just done and we're stunned when
every one of their children does nothing
more than write books ripping them off
or give speeches ripping them off we're
just stunned that the family is like
this and the answer of course is that's
what you get that's the kind of people
you get that's the craziness of our
society you get this sort of narcissism
driven people raises a lot of profound
questions in my mind about what you're
gonna vote for what are we gonna vote
for I guess we're gonna have to look at
since no matter who you like president
immediately decides he's king he is
totally king
none of the common or ordinary visitors
of life no longer have much to do with
him he's insulated from any reality
nothing but yes-man anybody who's not a
yes-man is out the door in two minutes I
don't know what you do how do you do it
I think the answer is when I vote again
assuming that the candidates are similar
in
social issues I'm not gonna worry about
the foreign policy issue because I know
they're gonna be the same they've always
been the same they're gonna get in
trouble and kick the commies innovative
country if they have to you know if not
Nicaragua something else to look good
and get a lot of points from the press
and the press will go along with them
totally I guess I'm gonna look at the
integrity factor try and find somebody
who I feel has more integrity than the
other guy it's a crazy way to do it but
that's where I'm at and something may
change something may not we're still a
wonderful country we can exist despite
all these things but our national
leadership doesn't have the integrity
that any of you have in your family and
I think that's a reality let's do some
questions yes Wow I'll repeat him